22 January 1975 Talk to Sahaja Yogis Mumbai (India) Talk
Language: Marathi Talk, Bholepana ani nirvicharitecha killa
Yesterday, at the Bhartiya Vidya Bhavan, I spoke
to you about the 3 powers of the God Almighty.
Many people who were present said that a lot of things that were told went over their heads.
[They couldn’t understand a lot of what Mother was saying.]
So, it is best that I tell you only
the things that go through the heart.
It is true that the brain cannot
comprehend such things.
The people who claim to be big big
scientists, educated, learned etc. etc.
are not able to absorb (the
knowledge) about Sahaja yoga.
I have seen many such intellectuals.
And one simple ordinary person
the one who is not educated,
who sometimes doesn't even have
means to eat, wear clothes
those people easily
imbibe Sahaja yoga.
You cannot realise
God through education.
As soon as I say this,
all the education officers
would come after me!
You may be able to understand how
the material world works through education.
But to know the workings of the Divine
you need different ways, different qualities.
Out of them, the most important
one is the quality of ‘Bholepana’
which translates to
‘innocence’ in English language.
Small children have
innocence in them.
Although you will find a few
grown-ups who are also very innocent.
They get cheated,
people take advantage of their innocence
and trouble them a lot.
They get tortured a lot too.
This is why all the saints have
suffered at the hands of people
in this world, and they still do.
That makes me cry at times.
All of you who have got
the Realization are saints.
Not only saints but you have become
the members of the divine kingdom.
You are now in the
same place as the deities.
The same divine people.
These are the same deities
whose description we have read about
in the Puranas [ancient Indian scriptures].
These Deities have now been
awakened inside of you all.
The divinity aspect is
enlightened within you.
So, in such a state (of yours)
it is obvious that the bhoots [evils]
will wander around you and trouble you.
Let them.
They can only trouble you
to a certain extent;
until they reach their limits.
Their powers are restricted only in
the three dimensions of this world.
Means only limited
to worldly matters.
At the most they may
harm you physically.
Let them.
The human body is mortal.
You may be harmed emotionally.
Let it be.
But I have given you one fortress
and shown you (Balekilla* – She refers to a fort of Shivaji where he used to take refuge to be safe from the enemy).
I have shown you
that within yourselves.
That is the fortress of Nirvichar
state, thoughtless awareness.
Always remember that no one will dare
to step in if you establish yourself within that fort.
But you must form a habit of
making yourself sit inside it.
Shri Krishna is called as Ranchhod-das [the
one who runs away from the battlefield].
Ranchhod-das meaning
nothing else but
the one escaping all the
bombardments of negativities
and taking refuge in
his own fortress.
That is why he is
called Ranchhod-das.
And the negativities stay
stunned and helpless outside!
We are aware that there
exists a lot of black magic.
We know that ill minded people
are practicing all sorts of dark arts.
I am also aware that
they are troubling you.
They torture you.
But how far can
they trouble you?
We will see you(negativities) once
we have entered in fortress.
So, you should never
forget about this fort of yours.
This circle of protection had never
been granted to humans before.
It has now been made available to you
with great difficulties;
the door has been opened,
so go and take a place inside.
Then let me see which negativity
dare to trouble you
or give you any disease or health problems!
You need to establish
yourself inside that fort.
Even if all your family
members oppose you,
you should be able to keep your state within saying
‘do what you want, I will stick to my state within’!
Even if the whole society
goes against you,
you should be able to
sustain yourself inside your fortress.
And at last, even if the
entire world opposes you,
and if you establish your foothold
inside that fort, who can enter it?
And the day someone enters your fort,
he also receives his self-realization.
thats the mircle
This miracle/magic is in our
hands, so pull
others inside your fort.
Let them see!
Then with whom they will fight,
for they will understand
that we are all one.
All these negative people who
are wandering around,
they are digging their own graves.
And this time, if they fall in their grave,
into that hell, (I) will not let them rise again.
So be alert;
There is no need to be scared.
If you are all ready,
then let us create that giant fort
together from this little fortress.
In this Kali Yuga; no one
has the daring to confront Me.
These are murderers who are
attacking children from the back.
So don’t pay attention there.
Be assured that no harm can be
done to you,
and never you will be harmed.
but you need to stay in your
shelter (of your fort)
and not to fall into their trap.
Some such (negative) people are
in Dadar [an area in Mumbai, India].
The black knowledge which these
false gurus have started
have destroyed many homes
so far and I know about it.
I had warned you already before.
Only two of them have left
Dadar, but others are still out there.
They are not for the welfare of people.
They only want fill their own stomach.
Make money for themselves.
They can surely earn
money, everyone does that.
But they are doing
this in the name of God.
They are making money in the
name of God which is objectionable
If you are selling bhoots [preaching negativity]
in the name of God
then it will be hard to forgive you.
God will never
forgive such people.
In the early days, the
bhoots were real bhoots.
But now these are people
selling bhoots in the name of God!
They tie these bands and strings (supposed
to help) around the wrists of people
and (they are) sending the bhoots
(through that) in your home.
These kinds of businesses
are going on rampantly.
These sorts of businesses are
going on in our London on such a scale
that I was wondering whether this is
London or Bhoot-nagari (the city of bhoots)!
As soon as you touch the grounds of
London, the bhoots are swarming everywhere!
Wherever you see,
it is just devil worship.(audio not clear)
That Christ who had warned
against following the path of such bhoots.
Warned against doing such work for devils
those same Christians, are now scavenging
the graveyards for blood and ashes
and are practicing these dark arts.
They are doing planchettes!
Means they are doing
exactly what was forbidden.
Christ had spoken about it
and so had Nanak Saheb.
No one else had spoken about it
so avowedly about this devil worship.
And now all these Christians – who used to
rule over India as British –
have now been
possessed by these people.
The streets and alleys of London are rampant
with businesses producing these bhoots.
And now what has
happened to their wisdom!
When I speak out against
them, the people don’t accept it.
The only difference is
the people out here in India sell it
under the name of God
while people there sell it in the name of bhoots:
they call it as Satan craft, or they call it witchcraft, etc.
There is no falsehood
there like we have in India.
But this is ‘exported’ there from India.
Many are exported there!
From here(India) those kings of
bhoots(False gurus) went there
have earned so much money, that each
one has 35-35 Rolls Royces [luxury cars].
One Rolls Royce costs around 8,00,000
sorry 10,00,000 Rs (in 1975).
This is what has started now in England.
And it is no better in India.
You need to first decide whether
you want Dharma or adharma?
If you want Dharma, then
you have to stand on truth.
For those who are looking
for untruth, I don’t have it.
I don’t have chamatkars [magic tricks],
I won’t pull out a ring to give you if you
want those sorts of things.
I have meditation.
I want to teach you the art of unlocking this great treasure, this great potential power which God has placed within you.
I want to ask all these (false gurus) who are
doing such gimmicks like giving out rings,
“They should solve all
the problems of India!
They should be
made Prime minister.
They will give the
rings to everyone!
Why (false gurus) giving rings
only to rich peoples?
Distribute here, there are
lots of poor people here.
They do not pay
attention to the poor at all.
All their attention is on the pockets of the rich
and the rich are stupidly just going there(to such people).
This is what is happening now.
You are not aware that the reason this country is in this pathetic state today is because of these bhoots.
So never help such people for
even a slight gain
and don't stand at
their door.
If anyone speaks about
bhoots, do not stand at their doorstep.
Everything is in Dharma.
All the things in this world including wealth and even much
beyond in this world, all of them are encompassed by the Dharma.
Everything is within Dharma.
And beyond that is also only in Dharma.
Everything has been
created by Dharma only.
There is nothing that
exists beyond Dharma.
And what lies beyond that
is not worth telling you
There are seven
generations of hell.
If you want to suffer from that
or if you want to get out of the cycle of human
birth and step into the birth cycle of insects,
only then you may walk on
the path (of this bhoot vidya).
You must speak
openly about it.
Stop all these magic games.
There's no need to argue about it
(And you shouldn’t be scared to do that).
The real magic within should
manifest,
the light should shine within.
And the flowers blooming
in that joy should
spread their fragrance everywhere
so that this mud of dirt gets
transformed into a lake of lotuses.
That time has come.
The entire universe
is ready for that time.
The five elements are
awaiting to help you out.
All the great incarnations are showering
blessings upon you to carry out this great task.
Everyone is fully prepared to
help you out in every possible way.
It is now up to the
humans to make a decision.
They must choose whether we
are following Dharma or Adharma.
Are we supporting
Dharma or Adharma?”
It is not possible
to buy the Dharma with money.
Those who have made a
business out of God,
mockery of Dharma by
fooling and cheating the innocent,
all those who have created this
tragic irony of Dharma
all of them will
have to suffer for their sins.
But the biggest sin of
all is to torture the saints.
There is no greater sin than distracting
the seekers from their path to seek God.
And the punishment for that sin is
so horrific that it cannot be described.
So never ever should
anyone take to such evil work.
The way Dharma is so beautiful,
as guiding as it is,
Dharma is as loving as it
as, as affectionate as it is,
as well as integrating everyone
together, same way it is refulgent too.
It is so radiant that it can also be destructive
which can burn and annihilate everything .
Dharma has got the
same powers as Agni [fire].
You better keep this in mind.
This time, I am noticing even more such
things in Dadar (area in Mumbai).
What kind of diseases
and what kind of troubles ,
today we are giving to our own
mothers , sisters and children ;
It is only we ourself are troubling our
own people; no one else.
Animals do not trouble humans.
The humans are harming
their fellow human beings.
They are the ones slitting
each other’s throats,
no one else is coming and slitting.
And the reason this is happening is because the
rakshasas [demons] have entered into the humans.
And at same time a bhakta
(devotee) also resides in the human.
The demons job is only
to slit the devotee’s throat.
If they don’t do it, they
wouldn’t be rakshasas!
But the situation is worse
as the rakshasas have entered
into each of the saints as well.
Now What can I do?
The one whom I consider as my son
the rakshasa has also entered inside him.
Now what am I to do ?
I can’t slap this child,
neither can I embrace him.
What a helpless situation for a Mother!
The Mother has come to visit the child,
but the child is hosting a bhoot in his head.
Now what can I do?
Throw away all those rakshasas
who are sitting on your heads!
Why are you carrying
them with all that pride?
What good have
they ever done to you?
There is scarcity of
food, scarcity of water….
the mother earth is
helpless in front of you,
the sun is also frustrated and
the sea has thrown his hands in the air
because of this stupidity of humans.
The people troubling the saints
should keep this in their minds
if you trouble a saint
for a few pennies,
you will be answerable for it, not only in
this lifetime, but many births after this.
I know that there are 2-4 persons who
have settled in this society (In general)
after making money in the wrong way.
Know that they are here to trouble.
keep this in mind !
Know that I am the mother of those
rakshasas as well, as I am yours.
But to protect you,
I have killed them many times and
will be killing them. So do not worry.
Even if they are my
children, I will still kill them.
Let them see.
Hopefully some of them will ascend
and become humans, then we will see.
But don’t you fall for their
games and illusions.
We cannot fill our stomachs with lies .
As it is, the nation is in ruins
but don’t ruin the future
of coming generations.
Great souls are taking
births in these times.
Do not create hell for them
but make some special
arrangements for them,
create something beautiful
to welcome them on this earth.
What have you done
here for your children?
I am standing here.
Ask for anything
and I will give you.
But from where
can I bring wisdom?
From where can we
borrow the wisdom for you?
You have to get
your own wisdom.
It is the only thing I am
asking you to get,
I am ready to do the
rest of the hard work.
That seed (of wisdom) lies within you.
It is absolutely true that
the seed lies inside you.
‘Vaalya’ (He was fishermen) transformed into
‘Vaalmiki’(Sage who wrote Ramayana).
The (power) thing by which he
got transformed, is also within you.
He didn’t necessarily want
to become Vaalmiki,
nor did he have
that much wisdom.
The day he realized that he is killing his
soul through his acts for little money,
he decided that day only.
The same day he decided.
He thought, “I have done alot of this.
For whom I am doing this?"
What have I done for myself?”
Think this way once and see
what have I done for myself?
I yearn for you
and my soul yearns for
you every moment..( I am concerned ).
I want to light the lamp inside you
the light which will spread all
over the world.
that light is going to enlighten from India only
you will be surprised, dont be scared.
Its a matter of few days.
It is only a matter of time.
Let this time pass.
Through these vibrations(your country)
you are going to sit on the top one day,
bear this in mind .
And there is only
one reason for that.
We agree everything is messed
up in this country
but still there is one reason
We haven’t learnt to
disrespect our mothers,
we still repect our Mothers honour.
And until this respect is there
the position of this country [in the
Kingdom of God] is not going to ever change.
This is Bhog Bhumi – land of experience
or this is Yoga Bhumi – land of Yoga.
You are not to decide on this.
It has already been decided by the Gods.
And why do the people born in this country consider
themselves inferior only because of scarcity of food?
Only you people can live like
this, not the people in London.
They start crying even for something as small
as the collar of the shirt being long or short.
You are the true Sanyasis
as you can sleep anywhere, can eat
whatever and stay anywhere means what?
You have the blessings of your Mother.
So, if you want to disrespect your Mother,
go ahead and do it
and then be ready for
the consequences!
At times one can be upset
with Mother  it's ok.
but it is also a fact that the highest
relationship in humans is the one with Mother
and that one can see(get Darshan)
God almighty in Her only.
And only the Mother of this country
have this capacity to bear so much.
Other places, they ask the children to
leave the house at a very young age.
And if the children do
not help in the chores,
they are asked to pay for their food,
such are the mothers outside (India).
Even if child die is also ok,
but Mother don't want
to spend money on child
90 year old women want to
keep money for lipstick.
And see how you
honored your Mothers.
Only here such mothers take birth; nowhere in
the world you would find a mother like in India.
You can go round and see that-
But you have tortured her so much.
Dharma will be lost in this
case. Do not disrespect dharma.
Stop all or any plans of
humiliating your Mother.
Return the money.
I know everything.
Don’t think that
I don’t know you!
[Shri Mataji turns soft again.] ok.
Anyways, whatever it is, right now – in this
lifetime, now..you need to get your realization.
Let’s eat the laadoos [sweets]
first and then we will see (sort out the rest).
What else can make
the Mother happy?
Mother has prepared such nice food for you
all and then she has to scold child!What is this?
But I have to do it(sometimes).
So now relax and
sit down to eat.
Eat your food in a relaxed mood.
And take the amrut
[nectar], acquire the amrut.
Let this amrut in the form of love,
flow through you into the entire world.
Here we are set on changing
the course of this world
– and you are still involved
with these petty nuisances.
All these things are going to be recorded
in the history of this world
keep that in mind, all the people
who have committed such stupidities.
Each name will be remembered,
and people will spit upon them.
Not only their children but generations
will be blamed for those wrongdoings.
So, these were the dirty people
who did these dirty deeds!!!
Brighten up your work!
Enlighten yourself. That is what the
Mother wants to give to her children.
Go into meditation
– close your eyes.
[Shri Mataji is
speaking in Hindi]
The talk I had to give today,
it had to be in Marathi,without
Marathi you cannot get the same fun,
This Heroic languange I can’t manage in Hindi.
I can manage
only in Marathi!
So, forgive me if I
didn’t speak in Hindi.
Forgive me again as I had to tell some things to
some specific people it was not meant for you.
[Shri Mataji again speaking in Marathi]
[referring to some guru.] Don’t say names.
At least, for the time being, do not blame.
Many people are lost.
People have gone to many
different (so called) gurus.
What is a guru, who is a Guru, who is
not; who is Guru,
who is animal – how to
recognize it – one feels it inside.
How to recognise it? It
has some feeling within.
How to recognize it? That you can
understand through vibrations.
The vibrations flowing from your hand can
tell you who the real guru is and who is not.
So first learn how to get that awareness
and then accept Guru.
Why are you making anyone Guru before like
mad men? First get the eyes to see the real Guru.
Until then keep
all the gurus aside.
After doing Namaskar keep all of them away.
For now, you are your own
guru, and I am your Mother.